OSDOCS 5806: Adding docs for using the secrets store CSI driver (#62385)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/secrets-store-sync-secrets.adoc

[WARNING]
====
Do not enable synchronization if you do not want to store your secrets on your {product-title} cluster and in etcd. Enable this functionality only if you require it; for example, to use environment variables to refer to the secret.
====

If synchronization is enabled, the secrets from the mounted volume are synchronized as Kubernetes secrets after you start a pod that mounts the secrets.

The synchronized Kubernetes secret is deleted when all pods that mounted the content are deleted.

.Prerequisites

* You have installed the {secrets-store-operator}.
* You have installed a secrets store provider.
* You have created the secret provider class.
* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

.Procedure

. Edit the `SecretProviderClass` resource by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit secretproviderclass my-azure-provider <1>
----
<1> Replace `my-azure-provider` with the name of your secret provider class.

. Add the `secretsObjects` section with the configuration for the synchronized Kubernetes secrets:
+
[source,yaml]
----

> apiVersion: secrets-store.csi.x-k8s.io/v1

Reviewer: apiVersion: secrets-store.csi.x-k8s.io/v1
kind: SecretProviderClass
metadata:
  name: my-azure-provider
  namespace: testropatil //plz put any random name
spec:
  provider: azure
  secretObjects:
    - secretName: tlssecret
      type: kubernetes.io/tls
      labels:
        environment: "test"
      data:
        - objectName: tlskey
          key: tls.key
        - objectName: tlscrt
          key: tls.crt
  parameters:
    usePodIdentity: "false"
    keyvaultName: "kvname"
    objects:  |
      array:
        - |
          objectName: tlskey
          objectType: secret
        - |
          objectName: tlscrt
          objectType: secret
    tenantId: "tid"

> apiVersion: secrets-store.csi.x-k8s.io/v1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
apiVersion: secrets-store.csi.x-k8s.io/v1
kind: SecretProviderClass
metadata:
  name: my-azure-provider
  namespace: testropatil //plz put any random name
spec:
  provider: azure
  secretObjects:
    - secretName: tlssecret
      type: kubernetes.io/tls
      labels:
        environment: "test"
      data:
        - objectName: tlskey
          key: tls.key
        - objectName: tlscrt
          key: tls.crt
  parameters:
    usePodIdentity: "false"
    keyvaultName: "kvname"
    objects:  |
      array:
        - |
          objectName: tlskey
          objectType: secret
        - |
          objectName: tlscrt
          objectType: secret
    tenantId: "tid"
```

> apiVersion: secrets-store.csi.x-k8s.io/v1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
apiVersion: secrets-store.csi.x-k8s.io/v1
kind: SecretProviderClass
metadata:
  name: my-azure-provider
  namespace: testropatil //plz put any random name
spec:
  provider: azure
  secretObjects:
    - secretName: tlssecret
      type: kubernetes.io/tls
      labels:
        environment: "test"
      data:
        - objectName: tlskey
          key: tls.key
        - objectName: tlscrt
          key: tls.crt
  parameters:
    usePodIdentity: "false"
    keyvaultName: "kvname"
    objects:  |
      array:
        - |
          objectName: tlskey
          objectType: secret
        - |
          objectName: tlscrt
          objectType: secret
    tenantId: "tid"
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * nodes/pods/nodes-pods-secrets-store.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="secrets-store-sync-secrets_{context}"]
= Enabling synchronization of mounted content as Kubernetes secrets

> You can enable synchronization to create Kubernetes secrets from the content on the mounted volume. An example where you might want to enable synchronization is to use an environment variable in your deployment to reference the Kubernetes secret.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can enable synchronization to create Kubernetes secrets from the content on a mounted volume. An example where you might want to enable synchronization is to use an environment variable in your deployment to reference the Kubernetes secret.
```
If you're referring to generic mounted volumes, then change to the indefinite article here.

[WARNING]
====

> Do not enable synchronization if you do not want to store your secrets on your {product-title} cluster and in etcd. Enable this functionality only if you require it; for example, to use environment variables to refer to the secret.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Do not enable synchronization if you do not want to store your secrets on your {product-title} cluster and in etcd. Enable this functionality only if you require it, such as when you want to use environment variables to refer to the secret.
```
- Rewrite to remove semicolon, which should only be used between two independent clauses. I've made one suggested revision above.

====

> If synchronization is enabled, the secrets from the mounted volume are synchronized as Kubernetes secrets after you start a pod that mounts the secrets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you enable synchronization, the secrets from the mounted volume are synchronized as Kubernetes secrets after you start a pod that mounts the secrets.
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: secrets-store.csi.x-k8s.io/v1
kind: SecretProviderClass
metadata:
  name: my-azure-provider
  namespace: my-namespace
spec:
  provider: azure
  secretObjects:                                   <1>
    - secretName: tlssecret                        <2>
      type: kubernetes.io/tls                      <3>
      labels:
        environment: "test"
      data:
        - objectName: tlskey                       <4>
          key: tls.key                             <5>
        - objectName: tlscrt
          key: tls.crt
  parameters:
    usePodIdentity: "false"
    keyvaultName: "kvname"
    objects:  |
      array:
        - |
          objectName: tlskey
          objectType: secret
        - |
          objectName: tlscrt
          objectType: secret
    tenantId: "tid"
----
<1> Specify the configuration for synchronized Kubernetes secrets.
<2> Specify the name of the Kubernetes `Secret` object to create.
<3> Specify the type of Kubernetes `Secret` object to create. For example, `Opaque` or `kubernetes.io/tls`.
<4> Specify the object name or alias of the mounted content to synchronize.

> <5> Specify the data field to from the specified `objectName` to populate the Kubernetes secret with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<5> Specify the data field to from the specified `objectName` to populate the Kubernetes secret with.
```
`data field to from` -- seems like a word is missing here.

Author: Good catch, removed "to"

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * nodes/pods/nodes-pods-secrets-store.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="secrets-store-sync-secrets_{context}"]
= Enabling synchronization of mounted content as Kubernetes secrets

You can enable synchronization to create Kubernetes secrets from the content on the mounted volume. An example where you might want to enable synchronization is to use an environment variable in your deployment to reference the Kubernetes secret.

[WARNING]
====
Do not enable synchronization if you do not want to store your secrets on your {product-title} cluster and in etcd. Enable this functionality only if you require it; for example, to use environment variables to refer to the secret.
====

> // TODO: If they enable sync, should we recommend they enable auto rotation too, or can they be done independent of each other?

Reviewer 3: Auto rotation is enabled by default and can not be disabled at least for TP.

Author: Thanks, that was an old question before I found out that it wouldn't be optional

If synchronization is enabled, the secrets from the mounted volume are synchronized as Kubernetes secrets after you start a pod that mounts the secrets.

The synchronized Kubernetes secret is deleted when all pods consuming the secret are deleted.

// TODO: This came from upstream's: "When all the pods consuming the secret are deleted, the Kubernetes secret is also deleted."

> // What exactly does "consuming it" mean? Does it mean when the pod(s) that mounted the content are deleted, or does it also mean if there are pods out there that are referencing the Kubernetes secret via ENV VAR?

Author: @ropatil010 @knelasevero

Can either of you clarify what this means, about when the synced kube secret is deleted?

Author: @ropatil010 @knelasevero do either of you know what this was trying to say here? Or what we should say here about the sync'd secret getting deleted?

Reviewer 4: > when the pod(s) that mounted the content are deleted

This :point_up:

. Add the `secretsObjects` section with the configuration for the synchronized Kubernetes secrets:
+
[source,yaml]
----

apiVersion: secrets-store.csi.x-k8s.io/v1
kind: SecretProviderClass
metadata:
  name: my-azure-provider
spec:
  provider: azure
  parameters:
    keyvaultName: "kvname"
    objects: |
      array:
        - |
          objectName: tls-cert
          objectType: secret
    tenantId: "tid"
  secretObjects:                          <1>
    - secretName: ingress-tls-csi         <2>
      type: kubernetes.io/tls             <3>
      data:
        - objectName: tls-cert            <4>
          key: tls.key                    <5>
        - objectName: tls-cert
          key: tls.crt
----
<1> Specify the configuration for synchronized Kubernetes secrets.
<2> Specify the name of the Kubernetes `Secret` object to create.
<3> Specify the type of Kubernetes `Secret` object to create. For example, `Opaque` or `kubernetes.io/tls`.
<4> Specify the object name or alias of the mounted content to synchronize.
<5> Specify the data field to from the specified `objectName` to populate the Kubernetes secret with.
+

> // TODO: Check indentation - should everything starting with "secretName" be indented left 2 spaces?

Author: @ropatil010 @knelasevero

Is this indented properly, or should everything starting at the line with callout <2> be shifted left 2 spaces?

Author: @ropatil010 @knelasevero bump on this. Is the indentation okay here, or do we need to make any adjustments?

Reviewer: yeah, identation looks good to me. Thanks.!

. Save the file to apply the changes.

> // TODO: Info on how this takes effect

Author: @ropatil010 @knelasevero

Is there anything we should say here about how it takes effect when you update the secret provider class to enable sync? Does it take effect when a new pod is created that uses that provider (and what about existing pods that are already deployed - do they need restarted or anything for the sync to start)?

Reviewer 4: Since we are enabling auto-rotation flag from the get go, all existing or new pods will get updated with changes to the SecretProviderClass.
